Oh, you're still reading this?  Alright then, you're probably wondering what this is all about.  Well, quite simply, FactoBASE! is a counting system like the ones you're familiar with.  Except, unlike the ones you're familiar with, FactoBASE! is constantly changing.  In the familiar base-10 (decimal) system, every digit has 10 possible values.  You start at 0, count up through 9, and when you get to 10 you add a digit and start over.  Most other systems that you've heard of like binary (base-2) or hexadecimal (base-16) work the same way, just starting over at a different number.  Easy, predictable, familiar.

FactoBASE! is none of those things.  In FactoBASE!, each digit has a different base number according to its position.  The first digit is base-1, the second digit is base-2, and so on according to their position so that the 100th digit would be base-100.  To cover the technicalities, here, "first digit" means the least-value digit, which is on the right and is read last.  See what I mean when I said it's not at all intuitive?  I couldn't even finish writing that  without getting bored.  So here's what that means.

To write FactoBASE!, like any other system, we start in the 1s place.  Except the 1s place can only take on one value.  So it must be 0 all the time, and we just ignore it.  Off to a good start already!  The next digit, technically the second digit but the first one you'll actually see (all the way to the right, naturally) can have 2 values: 0 or 1.  Now at least we're counting, even if not very high.  The third digit can have 3 values: 0, 1, or 2.  The seventh digit can have 7 values: 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6.  I could keep going but I don't want to and I don't think you want me to, either.  Now that we're having fun, here's an example:

Let's count to 7.

In base-10, counting to 7 is really easy.  Start counting up the 1s place until we get to 7.  Done already, so easy.  Didn't even have to tap into the next digit.  Now let's try FactoBASE!.

In FactoBASE! we start at the first digit, which is really the second digit because we ignore the REAL first digit.  We start counting up, except it can only take on a 0 or a 1.  So we count to 1, and run out of values.  To reach 2 we must increase the next digit by 1.  So now we're looking at "10" but we're only at 2.  Now we have to get to 3, count up by one and reach "11", not too bad.  But we're out of room in the first digit again and have to increase the next one *again* just to get to 4, which we now read as "20".  Count up again to reach 5, and we see "21".  Ok, these odd numbers aren't too bad I guess!  Next up is 6, but we've got a problem.  Now we're out of room in the first *and* second digit.  We've got to increase the third digit now and we're only at 6.  See, in FactoBASE!, the neat and clean "100" is now only 6.  One more number to go and we reach 7.  Thankfully it's another easy one.  Count up the first digit and there we go.

We've counted to 7 and our result is "101".  Makes perfect sense to me.  Now, all you have to do is remember that there's always an invisible 0 at the end of every FactoBASE! number.  It's always there, but we never write it.

Just for fun, "54321" is 719, "719" can't exist, and 54321 is "1252311".  If you can make sense of that, then you understand FactoBASE!, please explain it to me.

* For clarity, in this description numbers written in quotes are FactoBASE! and those written without them are base-10 numbers.  So on the example above, 54321 is fifty-four thousand three hundred twenty-one, while "54321" is a modestly sized FactoBASE! number.  This is true on this page only.